Memory
======

A game by Michael Bau and Kevin Riehm.

This is a version of the classic concentration game, where two players take
turns trying to match cards, two at a time.

How to Play
-----------

This is a two-player, networked game; in order to play, one player must first
host a game by executing `./memory.py` on the command line, picking an
available port number in the first screen, and clicking on 'Host a Game'. Then,
the second player must also execute `./memory.py`, type in the address and port
number of the host, and click on "Join a Game".

Players then take turns selecting two cards, which are flipped over on both
players' screens to show whether or not they match. If the two cards match, the
player how picked them is awarded a number of points determined by the time
they took to click the cards (indicated by the bar labeled "BONUS" in the
lower-right of the screen). All matches receive 100 points, but the time-based
bonus points can be up to two orders of magnitude greater!

Once a player has matched a pair of cards, they are removed from play, and a
miniature icon of the animal on the matched cards lights up in the lower-left
of the screen. These icons indicate special powers available to a player for
use on future turns. To use a power, simply click on the corresponding icon
_before_ your turn is complete (i.e., before selecting your second card);
generally speaking, you can use as many powers as you want in a single turn, in
addition to the normal selection of cards.

Each power behaves a little differently, but in general a faded icon means the
power is not available to the player, a lit icon means it _is_ available for
use, a yellow glow means a power you activated is currently operating, and a
red glow means a power was activated by the other player and is currently
affecting you (probably not in a positive way).

Powers
------

Unless otherwise specified, each power is single-use.

 - **Horse**: For the next two turns, decrease the amount of time the other
   player has to get bonus points.

 - **Monkey**: Rearrange the other player's view of the cards, without
   affecting your own.

 - **Gorilla**: Skip the other player's next turn, giving you two turns in
   immediate succession.

 - **Squirrel**: Get an immediate 1000 points; can be used once per turn,
   indefinitely.

 - **Bull**: For the next two turns, prevent the other player from activating
   new powers (powers they have alreayd activated continue to function
   normally).

 - **Bird**: Flip over half of the remaining cards only on your screen (the
   other player cannot see any of the flipped cards); however, this immediately
   ends your turn, preventing the use of any more powers or the normal card
   selection.

 - **Fish**: The fish is a red herring.

 - **Spider**: Reset all cards, other than the spider cards, to their original
   unmatched state, allowing them to be picked again (and their powers
   re-acquired); also shuffles the cards' arrangements on both players'
   screens.

 - **Pig**: When activated with exactly one card selected, has a two-thirds
   chance of automatically selecting the matching card; otherwise, it does
   nothing.

 - **Rooster**: Reset the rooster cards and oe other randomly selected
   already-matched pair to their original unmatched state; also shuffles the
   cards' arrangements on both players' screens.

 - **Dog**: Remove ten percent of the other player's points, and add the same
   numerical amount to your own score.

 - **Turtle**: For the next two turns, increase the amount of time you have to
   get bonus points.

Media Credits
-------------

`sounds/card_flip.wav`, from
https://www.freesound.org/people/Splashdust/sounds/84322/, is under the
Creative Commons 0 (public domain) license.

`sounds/song_1.ogg` is "Autumn Day" by Kevin MacLeod, and is under the Creative
Commons Attribution 3.0 license.

